# Getting Started with AWS Full Stack File Processor

This project demonstrates a full-stack application integrating a React front-end with various AWS services for backend processing. The workflow includes collecting user input text and file uploads through a React app, storing files in S3 logging metadata in DynamoDB, processing the data using Lambda and EC2 instances, append the input text into the input file, and finally uploading the output file into S3 while terminating the instance.

This React application allows users to upload text and .txt files directly to an AWS S3 bucket via a user-friendly web interface.

## Features

- Responsive UI built with ReactJS.
- Text input for user-entered data.
- File input for uploading .txt files.
- Direct file uploads to AWS S3 using pre-signed URLs for enhanced security.

## Setup

To get this project running on your local machine, follow these detailed steps.

### Prerequisites

You will need:

- Node.js (LTS version)
- npm (typically installed with Node.js)
- An AWS account
- AWS CLI installed and configured


### 1. AWS Configuration

#### S3 Bucket

1. Create an S3 bucket via the AWS Management Console.
2. Update the bucket policy to allow public reads and set up CORS (given below) to allow requests from your domain.
```
[
    {
        "AllowedHeaders": [
            "*"
        ],
        "AllowedMethods": [
            "PUT",
            "POST",
            "GET"
        ],
        "AllowedOrigins": [
            "http://localhost:3000"
        ],
        "ExposeHeaders": []
    }
]
```

#### Cognito Identity Pool

1. Create a new identity pool in AWS Cognito.
2. Enable access to unauthenticated identities.
3. Associate the identity pool with an IAM role (If you don't have any create a new one with the name you like).
4. Make sure that this IAM role have permission to put objects in your S3 bucket.

#### DynamoDB
1. Create a DynamoDB table named `poctable`
2. For the Partition key, enter `id` and select the type as `String`. This will be the unique identifier for each record.
3. Click "Create" to provision the new table.
    - Note: The actual `id` values will be generated by the Lambda function using the `nanoid` library when new records are inserted, ensuring each entry is unique.

#### Lambda Function

1. Create a Lambda function in AWS.
2. Use the provided in `lambda_function.py` (/Lambda/pocuploadfunction/) as the code base.
3. Assign an execution role for this Lambda Function that has permissions to write to DynamoDB and S3.
4. Also, create another Lambda Function and use the code (/Lambda/pocprocessdynamodbinsert/) as the code base.
5. Assign an execution role for this Lambda Function that has permissions to write to DynamoDB and S3.

#### API Gateway

1. Set up an API Gateway to trigger the Lambda function.
2. Create a REST and POST method connected to the Lambda.
3. The CORS configuration required for Api is code inside Lambda Function, so no worries on that here.



### 2. Local Project Setup

1. Clone the project repository:

```
sh
git clone https://github.com/your-username/react-s3-uploader.git
cd react-s3-uploader/poc-react-app
```
Update npm package using the below command.
```
npm update

```


    - `App.js`: Manages UI and AWS SDK interactions for uploading files to S3 and displaying status.
    - `index.js`: Entry point of the React application.



## Deployment Flow

- Users upload files and input data via the React app. This information is then uploaded to S3, and corresponding metadata is logged to DynamoDB.
- The upload to S3 triggers Lambda function to log file metadata in DynamoDB.
- The insert into DynamoDB triggers the second Lambda function to run the script stored in S3, which then initiate EC2 instances for further processing.

## Troubleshooting & Logging

- AWS CloudWatch: Essential for monitoring Lambda executions, EC2 instance status, and debugging issues.
- IAM Roles: Ensure all AWS services (Lambda, EC2, S3, DynamoDB) have roles with appropriate permissions.
- React Developer Tools: Useful for debugging front-end issues.


## Available Scripts

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.\
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.\
Your app is ready to be deployed!

